>> Speaker 1: So for the prerequisites,
like I said, you only need two things.
Node.js version 20, minimal.
And then get, that's it.
Doesn't matter if you're on Windows,
doesn't matter if you're on Linux Mac,
just those two things,
cuz it's just the Next.js app.
So I already said this at the beginning,
but fork the repo, clone it, pull it down.
Make sure you do an NPM install.
I have a package lock in there, which is
used by NPM to make sure all the versions
of all the dependencies resolve to
the same versions that I have now.
If you do yarn, if you do bun to install,
it'll install them.
But in the future, when those things
get upgraded and have breaking changes,
you'll most likely, you could also
have breaking changes as well.
So if you want to, I mean,
I guess technically,
you shouldn't use a package JSON.
Package JSON has a carrot
character in front of it for
preventing it from having like
breaking change downloads.
But you can't trust developers will
introduce breaking changes and miners and
patches which they do a lot.
So just don't trust it.
Just use NPM to install the packages and
then if you wanna use bind or
something else to actually execute it.
I've tested it in the latest version
of Bun, I use Bun for everything.
It works just fine, but we'll be using
NPM and Node for this entire course.
The next thing is setting up a database.
I went back and forth on whether or not,
should I just do it in memory database?
Should I just mock this out?
Should I just fake it?
And I just feel like I wasn't, to really
solidify this and make this feel like
a production and get the best value is
best just to have a real database here.
Your database was so
easy to set up these days, why not?
In the last courses I taught we set up
a database and it was super simple.
So we're gonna use the same one.
And that's from a database
provider called Turso.
If you've never heard of Turso,
it's pretty cool.
It's basically like hosted sequel lite.
In fact, they forked SQLite and
made something called lib SQL.
If you've never heard of SQL Lite,
it's exactly what it sounds like.
It's like like SQL.
It's like SQL but in a file.
So it's very portable.
You can use it locally on a phone.
You can use it locally on a browser,
you can put it on the edge.
You can put it on a server,
it kind of just goes everywhere.
It's a pretty useful database, but
no one's been ever able
to scale it until now.
There's other companies that
kind of do the same thing.
We're just using this one because
they have a generous free plan and
it's very easy to get set up.
So that's why we're using it.
As far as getting set up,
make an account, it's free.
Once you do that, I already have one.
So I'm gonna log in.
I'm just gonna walk you
through some of this stuff.
If you're signing up for the first time,
it'll take you through an onboarding
process where actually to create a
database, go ahead and create a database.
There's like an option known
that it says create a replica.
You don't need that.
You don't need a replica,
just create a database.
You can call it whatever you want,
doesn't matter.
But eventually they'll
dump you to this screen.
>> Speaker 1: Once you get to this screen,
you can just click on your databases,
click on the one that you want.
In my case it's called party.
And you just wanna keep track of this URL,
we're gonna need to add this URL into
our environment variables in our repo.
So we can actually have a database so
here's your URL.
And then the last thing is there's
a button here that you can hit that'll
generate adjacent web token.
We also need to add that to
our environment variable.
So that's really it as
far as the database.
So again, turtle, sign up,
click databases, click your database,
keep note of this URL,
generate a token, copy that.
You can generate as many
tokens as you want.
Once you have that, make a .env on the
root of that repo, and you just need these
two environment variables,
TURSO_CONNECTION_URL, TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN.
And yeah, you put the connection here
all there, you put the token there.
I already have mine set up.
The last step is once you add your .env
is you need to push the schema up to
the database.
So this is how you know you're done.
So what you need to do once you add
your .env file, there is a command and
a package JSON you can run that by saying
npm run db:push, run that command.
Yours might say exactly what mine says or
not,
my database already has this schema,
so the output might be different.
But you just wanna say yes.
I wanna execute all these statements.
Once you do that, it's going to
attempt to apply those changes.
You shouldn't have any issues since
it's a brand new database and
you know you're done when
it says changes apply.
That's when you know your database
is in sync with your schema.
The schema is already written.
We won't be writing
database schemas today.
It's not a database course but if you're
curious, you can go check it out.
Hopefully, everybody had a chance
to set up their Turso database and
sync their schema.
That is the last configuration with
databases that we will be doing on
this course.
Although we will be writing a lot of
database queries using an ORM called
Drizzle.
If you don't have any experience
with that, that's totally fine.
Like I said earlier, the code is in the
notes and on Github, so just follow along.